cacti.txt
Created Mon Feb  3 09:52:12 AKST 2014
Copyright (C) 2014 by Raymond E. Marcil <marcilr@gmail.com>


Cacti the complete rrdtool-based graphic solution.

This is the monitoring tool that GCI uses.
Very nice.



About Cacti
===========
Cacti is a complete network graphing solution designed to harness the power of
RRDTool's data storage and graphing functionality.  Cacti provides a fast
poller, advanced graph templating, multiple data acquisition methods, and user
management features out of the box.  All of this is wrapped in an intuitive,
easy to use interface that makes sense for LAN-sized installations up to
complex networks with hundreds of devices.

cacti.net/


What is Cacti?
=============
Cacti is a complete frontend to RRDTool, it stores all of the necessary
information to create graphs and populate them with data in a MySQL database.
The frontend is completely PHP driven.  Along with being able to maintain
Graphs, Data Sources, and Round Robin Archives in a database, cacti handles
the data gathering.  There is also SNMP support for those used to creating
traffic graphs with MRTG.

Data Sources
------------
To handle data gathering, you can feed cacti the paths to any external
script/command along with any data that the user will need to "fill in", cacti
will then gather this data in a cron-job and populate a MySQL database/the
round robin archives.

Data Sources can also be created, which correspond to actual data on the graph.
For instance, if a user would want to graph the ping times to a host, you
could create a data source utilizing a script that pings a host and returns
it's value in milliseconds.  After defining options for RRDTool such as how to
store the data you will be able to define any additional information that the
data input source requires, such as a host to ping in this case.  Once a data
source is created, it is automatically maintained at 5 minute intervals.

Graphs
------
Once one or more data sources are defined, an RRDTool graph can be created
using the data.  Cacti allows you to create almost any imaginable RRDTool
graph using all of the standard RRDTool graph types and consolidation
functions.  A color selection area and automatic text padding function also
aid in the creation of graphs to make the process easier.

Not only can you create RRDTool based graphs in cacti, but there are many ways
to display them.  Along with a standard "list view" and a "preview mode",
which resembles the RRDTool frontend 14all, there is a "tree view", which
allows you to put graphs onto a hierarchical tree for organizational purposes.

User Management
---------------
Due to the many functions of cacti, a user based management tool is built in
so you can add users and give them rights to certain areas of cacti.  This
would allow someone to create some users that can change graph parameters,
while others can only view graphs.  Each user also maintains their own
settings when it comes to viewing graphs.

Templating
----------
Lastly, cacti is able to scale to a large number of data sources and graphs
through the use of templates.  This allows the creation of a single graph or
data source template which defines any graph or data source associated with
it.  Host templates enable you to define the capabilities of a host so cacti
can poll it for information upon the addition of a new host.


Licensing
=========
Cacti is released under the GNU General Public License, meaning that it is
completely free with no strings attached. 


cacti.net/what_is_cacti.php




Links
=====
Cacti the complete rrdtool-based graphic solution.
http://www.cacti.net/

What is Cacti
http://www.cacti.net/what_is_cacti.php
